Shutting down Satellites (#890)
earthly/website: blog/_posts/2025-04-16-shutting-down-satellites.md

Reviewer: Remember to change the file name to `2025-04-16-shutting-down-earthfiles-cloud.md`

From container-centric dev experiences to cache optimization strategies, we've demonstrated tangible improvements in CI speed and efficiency—providing up to a 10x ROI in compute cost savings and developer productivity. This success is a testament to the creativity and hard work of our community.

With that said, we have encountered some significant challenges when attempting to commercialize Earthly in its current form, and unfortunately, without commercial success, we are no longer able to sustain our development efforts towards the project.

## Challenge #1: Difficulty of adoption

Adopting new open-source technology is a slow process. Even the most successful infrastructure companies, like Docker, took nearly a decade to become mainstream. Despite their technical brilliance, finding a commercialization path was challenging.

In the past, venture-backed companies could rely on open-source traction alone. Hashicorp, for example, sustained itself up to Series C—six years after inception—on open-source projects like Vagrant, Packer, and Consul that weren't even commercialized.

> Today, the economic landscape has shifted. Many infrastructure investors have pivoted towards AI, and high interest rates have made LPs prioritize non-venture opportunities. As a result, there is less appetite for open-source moonshots, making early monetization a necessity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Today, the economic landscape has shifted. Many infrastructure investors have pivoted toward AI, and there is less appetite for pure-play open-source moonshots, making early monetization a necessity.
```

Reviewer: (This was a later edit)
